---
title: "Welcome to Vodafone Wayfinder OSS"
date: 2010-07-13T19:00:32+01:00
layout: single
read_time: false
comments: false
share: true
excerpt: ''
---

_This is the original blog post announcing the open source project, there is no
longer a forum or a test server available unfortunately_

We are proud to announce the Vodafone Wayfinder Open Source Software project.
The majority of all the location and navigation related software developed at
Wayfinder Systems, a fully owned Vodafone subsidiary, is made available
publicly under a BSD licence. This includes the distributed back-end server,
tools to manage the server cluster and map conversion as well as client
software for e.g. Android, iPhone and Symbian S60. Technical documentation is
available in the wiki and discussions around the software are hosted in the
forum.

Some pre compiled map data from various sources will be made available here
shortly, including sample data for development by Tele Atlas.

For development purposes Vodafone Wayfinder host a small server cluster with
free map data from the [Open Street Map](www.openstreetmap.org) database.
Unfortunately the Wayfinder Server is not developed to operate directly on this
dataset making routing very unreliable, however, you are more than welcome to
help out fixing those issues :-) . Please notice that this server instance is
intended for development and testing of the software, not for large scale
end-user services.

## Background

The operations of Wayfinder Systems has been discontinued since March 11th
2010, see [media
release](http://www.vodafone.com/content/index/media/vodafone-group-releases/2010/wayfinder_statement.html),
and after that Vodafone decided to contribute the software to the open source
community. Please also visit [www.betavine.net](http://www.betavine.net),
hosting other Vodafone open source projects.

